Task/3 24 2026 json schema for filters documentation edition (#1682)
Alpine-DAV/ascent: src/docs/sphinx/developer_docs/Parameter_Schemas.rst

.. ############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and other Ascent
.. # Project developers. See top-level LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT files for dates and
.. # other details. No copyright assignment is required to contribute to Ascent.
.. ############################################################################

.. _param_schema:

Parameter Schemas for Validation and Surprise Checking
======================================================

> The schema validator supports a focused subset of JSON Schema, along with a few Conduit-specific extensions under constraints.

Reviewer: add link to json schema web resources

Author: Link added specifically to the top level references page: [https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference)

  .. code-block:: yaml

    # Schema
    type: string
    enum: ["nearest", "linear"]

    # Input
    "furthest"

  .. code-block:: text

    Validation failed at '<root>' (enum): 'furthest' is not one of the allowed enum entries. Expected one of {nearest, linear}.

  .. raw:: html

    </details>

``allOf``
---------

  Requires that the input validates against *all* subschemas in the array.

  On failure, the validator records a summary message and may add a small number
  of per-option "hint" messages derived from the first error in each failing
  option.

  **Example:**

  .. code-block:: yaml

    # Require multiple constraints at once.
    allOf:
      - {type: string, minLength: 1}
      - {type: string, pattern: "^[a-z0-9_]+$"}

  .. raw:: html

    <details class="schema-failure"><summary><span style="color:#b94a48;"><strong>Validation Failure Example (string not matching all schemas)</strong></span></summary>

  .. code-block:: yaml

    # Schema
    allOf:
      - {type: string, minLength: 1}
      - {type: string, enum: ["nearest", "linear"]}

    # Input
    "furthest"

  .. code-block:: text

>     Validation failed at '<root>' (all of): expected all of the 2 schema optioons to mathc, but only one matched

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Validation failed at '<root>' (all of): expected all of the 2 schema option to match, but only one matched
```

Author: Resolved spelling error locally when also adding Parameter_Schemas to TOC
